Bangladesh is the world's eighth most populous country as well as its most densely-populated, to the exclusion of small island nations and city-states. 
Dhaka is its capital and largest city, followed by Chittagong, which has the country's largest port. 
Bangladesh forms the largest and easternmost part of the Bengal region. 
Bangladeshis include people from a range of ethnic groups and religions. 
Bengalis, who speak the official Bengali language, make up 98% of the population. 
The politically dominant Bengali Muslims make the nation the world's third largest Muslim-majority country. 
Islam is the official religion of Bangladesh.

Most of Bangladesh is covered by the Bengal delta, the largest delta on Earth. 
The country has 700 rivers and 8,046 km (5,000 mi) of inland waterways. 
Highlands with evergreen forests are found in the northeastern and southeastern regions of the country. 
Bangladesh has many islands and a coral reef. The longest unbroken natural sea beach of the world, Cox's Bazar Beach, is located in the southeast. 
It is home to the Sundarbans, the largest mangrove forest in the world. 
The country's biodiversity includes a vast array of plant and wildlife, including endangered Bengal tigers, the national animal.

The Greeks and Romans identified the region as Gangaridai, a powerful kingdom of the historical Indian subcontinent, in the 3rd century BCE. 
Archaeological research has unearthed several ancient cities in Bangladesh, which enjoyed international trade links for millennia. 
The Bengal Sultanate and Mughal Bengal transformed the region into a cosmopolitan Islamic imperial power between the 14th and 18th centuries. 
The region was home to many principalities that made use of their inland naval prowess. 
As the Mughal Empire's wealthiest province, Bangladesh as part of the Bengal Subah was worth 12% of the world's GDP, larger than the entirety of western Europe. 
It was also a notable center of the global muslin and silk trade. 
As part of British India, the region was influenced by the Bengali renaissance and played an important role in anti-colonial movements. 
The Partition of British India made East Bengal a part of the Dominion of Pakistan; and renamed it as East Pakistan. 
The region witnessed the Bengali Language Movement in 1952 and the Bangladesh Liberation War in 1971. 
After independence was achieved, a parliamentary republic was established. 
A presidential government was in place between 1975 and 1990, followed by a return to parliamentary democracy. 
The country continues to face challenges in the areas of poverty, education, healthcare, and corruption.


